# Divide-and-Conquer
Created: 2022-11-01 09:03

## Common Recurrence Types
One of the more common recurrence types would be the divide-and-conquer method. The mergesort and quicksort algorithms both fall into this category, along with multipying large integers and matrix multiplication. The form they take mathematically is $T(n) = aT(\frac{n}{b}) + f(n)$. 

The first technique examined is the decrease-and-conquer method. The decrease-by-one method is used primarily in insertion sort or topological sorting. The decrease by constant is used in binary search, reducing the problem space by a given constant. Decreasing by a variable size is used in Euclid's Algorithm and Interpolation Search, and searching and inserting in a binary search tree. 

The transform-and-conquer method are used in Gaussian Elimination and different types of balanced search trees, along with heapsort.

### Divide and Conquer
The main strategy for divide and conquer is to reduce the problem into a smaller number of subproblems and then using recursion to solve these smaller problems. If needed, combining the solutions generated by the subproblems is necessary to solve the larger problem. 

#### Example 2.1: Sum Computation
Efficiency of this algorithm would be $T(1) = 0$, and $T(n) = 2T(\frac{n}{2}) + c$. 

### Analysis of Divide-and-Conquer
In order to analyze divide and conquer algorithms, we need to make the following assumption, that for $n\leq c$ , for a given constant $c$, the time would be $\Theta(1)$. From there, we divide the problem into $a$ subproblems, where the input size would be $\frac{n}{b}$. The divide task would take $D(n)$ time, and the conquer steps would be $T(\frac{n}{b})$ for each conquer and $aT(\frac{n}{b})$ for all conquer tasks. Finally to combinem $C(n)$ time. 

The final recurrence would be: 

ADD THIS


## References
1. Introduction to Algorithms, Chapter 4