# Convolutional Neural Networks
Created: 2022-11-01 10:41

## Computer Vision
CNN (convolutional neural networks) first started getting good results on image classification tasks around 2015, such as ImageNet. They soon became dominant in the field, with pretty much all vision tasks using CNNs. 

### Conv2D
Both the inputs and outputs of a Conv2D are rank 3 tensors, with a shape of (height, width, channels). From there, the number of channels for the output is determined by the filters argument. Each filter reflects a feature or pattern in a given image, with common filter sizes are $3 x 3$ or $5 x 5$, and the number of filters are a trainable weight w.r.t. backpropagation. The resulting output is a feature map, with the features being more fine-grained the more convolutional layers used. The example from the book is that of an image of the cat, with the first layer highlighting the overall lines of the cat in the image, with successive layers learning more specific visual features. 

#### Translation-Invariant
One of the reasons that CNNs are so good is that they can recognize patters regardless of where they appear in the image, whereas fully-connected layers will need to relearn a pattern if it appears in a different location in the image.

#### Spatial Hierarchy
The other reason for the success of CNNs is that

### Max-Pooling Layer
Max pooling layers role is downsample the feature maps generated by the convolutional layers, which in turn reduces the computational load from the feature-map coefficients. The other goal is to help induce spatial-filter hierarchies by making the convolutional layers that follow a max-pooling layer look at increasingly larger windows. 

### Border Effects and Padding
Padding can be added to a Conv2D layer via the padding argument, "valid" is no padding, with 

### Stride
Distance between successive convolutional windows is known as the stride, with the default being 1. 

## References
1. Deep Learning With Python, Chapter 8